[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Throughout my life
I've been fascinated with
the phenomena of past lives
and what happens between lives.
My research began with
author Ruth Montgomery.
But since her time, many
other brilliant people
have entered this field,
including Michael Newton, who
spent 50 years of his
life regressing people
to learn about what happens
beyond the physical.
Michael Lindemann,
along with his wife,
continue this exploration.
And he's here with us today
to speak about their findings
in past life and
between life phenomena.
Welcome.
>>MICHAEL LINDEMANN:
Very happy to be here.
>>REGINA: And we talk
about Michael Newton
because this is really a
huge influence on your work.
You're a devotee of
Michael Newton's work,
and I know he's very
highly regarded,
an elderly gentleman now.
Who knows, maybe one day we
can have him on the show, too.
But in the interim,
what we'd like
to do is find out,
because you're actually
in the field
practicing as well, I
wanted to find out what
kind of turned you-- you
had a whole other career going.
What turned you
in this direction?
I mean, I know
your wife was very
ensconced in regression
therapy, hypnosis, and so forth.
But what about you?
>>LINDEMANN: Well,
I think in a sense
it's just part of my
personal evolution, really.
My first exposure to
the idea of past lives
came when I was in
my early 20s, when
I became associated with
a spiritual teacher who
had an eastern orientation
and obviously told
us, all his students, that
reincarnation was a fact,
and that we had been
here many times before,
and that that was all part
of our spiritual progression.
That was a very interesting
idea to me at that time.
And so for a while,
it was simply
a part of my spiritual belief.
Now I graduated out of that
spiritual belief system
at a certain point in my life.
But I continued
to be interested,
because I was also doing a form
of psychological counseling
that drew heavily on
the idea of past lives.
I don't know if you've
heard of something called
psychosynthesis, but that
was what I was practicing
when I was in my 20s and 30s.
And psychosynthesis is
a very interesting form
of psychological therapy,
but interestingly, it
has its roots in Tibetan
mysticism, Tibetan Buddhism.
>>REGINA: Tell us a
little more about it.
>>LINDEMANN: Well,
it was invented
by a guy who trained as a
psychoanalyst with Sigmund
Freud, a man named
Roberto Assagioli.
He was an Italian, and he was
a very brilliant therapist.
And after doing his time
in standard psychoanalysis,
he began to realize
that there had
to be other dimensions
to the human psyche
and how it is that we behave,
and the ideas that we have,
and so forth.
And at the same
time, he was becoming
a very advanced student of
this body of literature that
is associated with a
teacher who is known
to many as simply The Tibetan.
You've probably heard of this
guy, a guy named Djwhal Khul.
And he is the voice
behind the work that
is attributed to Alice Bailey.
Now Alice Bailey wrote
a vast literature,
huge, gigantic
spiritual literature.
Pretty hard stuff to read.
But when I was younger and more
ambitious, I read a lot of it.
And I learned
along the way, as I
was learning to practice
psychosynthesis,
I learned that Assagioli
had drawn a lot of his ideas
from the teachings of The
Tibetan and Alice Bailey.
And so I began to have an
esoteric, exoteric combination
in my work and thinking.
>>REGINA: It makes sense
Tibetan Buddhism would take you
into the realms of
reincarnation, obviously.
>>LINDEMANN: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: That's just
part of the fabric that
would have to be included.
>>LINDEMANN: Absolutely.
And what was interesting
was that apart from sort
of the spiritual aspects
of reincarnation,
Roberto Assagioli
brought reincarnation
into the therapeutic zone.
And psychosynthesis assumes
that we have past lives,
and that working with past
lives is part of the healing
therapeutic process.
>>REGINA: At this
point in your life,
when you were still
a youngster, did
you do some of your own
past life exploration?
>>LINDEMANN: I did some, but
to be honest, not very much.
I did, however, have a
couple of regressions.
>>REGINA: One of the
things I was noticing in
the book you have right in front
of you, "Journey of Souls,"
from Michael Newton.
He wasn't going
in this direction
initially either, until he
had a particular client who
was having this severe chronic
pain down the right-hand side
of his body, as I recall.
And when he started working
with him through hypnosis, boom,
this other incarnation as a
World War I soldier popped up.
Right?
>>LINDEMANN: That's right.
>>REGINA: Is that right?
>>LINDEMANN: That is correct.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so that started,
really, his curiosity
as to, hmm, how much
of what I'm seeing
by way of pain and
dysfunction is actually
coming from another
time long forgotten?
So let's talk about you
picking up on that thread.
>>LINDEMANN: Right.
Well, first of all, I should
say that my wife was ahead
of me on this.
My wife trained in
regression therapy.
She is a clinical hypnotherapist
and has been in practice
for over 20 years.
And she trained in
regression therapy
as part of her early
training, so began
doing regressions when
she was in her early 40s,
and has been doing them from
time to time ever since.
Now when she and I
began to work together,
I had to do some catching up,
because although I was well
familiar with the
concept of past lives,
I had not done any work in
the therapeutic modality
for a long time.
But she was doing that,
and still does do that.
So that introduced
me to the idea
that we can regress
people into past lives
for therapeutic purposes.
>>REGINA: So once you started
in the use of hypnosis
and past life therapy,
tell us, maybe,
some of the more interesting
first cases that really
startled you into
understanding, aha,
I'm really on the
right path here.
>>LINDEMANN: Well,
I can recall a case,
for example-- this was
one that my wife had,
but we talked about
it extensively
because it was really
quite a surprise.
A person had come to her
with some intractable issues
about his self- concept.
And he was very
unhappy with not being
able to achieve some
things in his life,
and not feeling like he was
really grounded in this life.
He was feeling like some
big piece was missing.
And in the course of
their work, Deborah
decided to do a
past life regression
to see what he came up with.
And what he came up
with was a life when
he was a Civil War soldier.
And in doing this past life
regression, part of his issues
had been that he was
having difficulty
with relationships with women.
And it turned out that what had
really occurred in this Civil
War life was that he had
gone away to war, leaving
a wife and young child,
and had been killed,
and had never resolved that loss
and that broken relationship.
And so, although this has
obviously happened to millions
upon millions upon
millions of people,
we don't know how many
people are carrying around
that kind of broken relationship
line that needs, at some point,
to be healed.
But in this instance, my wife
was able to work with him
and literally heal
that broken piece
in his life in one session.
And after that it
became much, much easier
and more comfortable for him to
have a committed relationship.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I mean, I have
experienced quite a lot
of these myself, but also
assisted others in this.
And when you're
talking about this,
it also brings to mind someone I
know very well who was speaking
with the being that I'm
particularly-- that I respect,
that I deal a lot with.
And they were talking
to this being,
and they said, well, you
have a difficult path here.
And she asked why,
and they said, well,
you have one foot in your past
life, your last one, and one
in this one.
And as it turns out, they were
very delicate in handling her,
much more so than
I'd seen before.
And as it turned out, she was
in very difficult circumstance
where the family had
starved and frozen to death,
and she was the
last one remaining.
So she took her own
life, and so hadn't
completed its natural process.
And she was still here
in this incarnation
looking for her family.
And like she said
in the beginning,
I felt no connection with
anyone, no passion, no purpose
for being here.
She felt none of that.
Is that similar to how this man
was feeling, just disconnected?
>>LINDEMANN: Yes.
I would say yes, exactly.
As if displaced, out of time.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>LINDEMANN: Not in the
right time frame of his life.
And yes, and when we can resolve
these broken or uncompleted
issues, then the
person realizes they
can close the door on that past
which has had a grip on them,
and be much more in the present.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK, now.
Let's go to some of the common
experience that people have.
I mean, I know "Journey
of Souls" is full of this,
chapter by chapter.
It talks about a
commonality of experience.
Let's start with what people--
what they first experience when
they find themselves out
of the body, and let's
say, particularly, if
it's a surprise, as
in a very quick, unexpected
ending, as opposed
to being elderly and a very
natural transition, where you
can become acculturated to it.
So let's talk
about what happens.
So you're slammed
out of the body.
You've died suddenly.
>>LINDEMANN: And of course,
this was something discovered
not only by Michael Newton,
but by some of the people
who preceded him
such as Brian Weiss.
>>REGINA: Raymond Moody.
>>LINDEMANN: Raymond Moody.
Thank you.
The idea is that
when we die, there
is a process of dying,
which helps us to identify
that an entity that remains
alert and aware and cognitive
as the body itself is
dying and becoming inert.
And of course, there are
many out of body experiences
that happen in hospital
settings and so forth
that give us this clue.
But Michael Newton, basically,
also finds from the work
that he does with
hypnotic regression,
that when the person dies,
depending on whether they're
relatively new at this,
or whether they're
old timers and old
hands at it, there
could be a couple of
different reactions.
Sometimes, if it's very sudden
and the soul is a young soul,
meaning they haven't had many,
many incarnations, that it may
come as a bit of a
surprise, a bit of a shock,
because first of
all, they recognize,
I'm still completely alert,
I'm still completely aware.
But I'm not in the
same place I was.
My orientation is different.
There's a body on the floor
there, or on the table,
or whatever happened.
I am now separate from that, and
so there's a sense of surprise
and almost disbelief
that they can
be separated from everything
they thought was them,
and yet still be absolutely full
of who they are, fully alert.
>>REGINA: Quite a
surprise to find out.
In fact, in one of his
regressions, the guy said,
I'm alive.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
What a surprise.
And so now, when a
person is used to that,
let's say, when
they're a bit more
conscious in their
revolution, when they've
gone through the process of
death and rebirth many times,
dozens of times,
perhaps, for them
it's not a surprise at all.
For them, when they die,
they go, oh great, I'm dead.
Let's get on with it.
OK?
In fact, one of his
clients even said that.
Let's get on with it, OK?
Because that kind
of a soul that's
had some experience
in this recognizes
that this is just the next step.
We have stepped out of
the incarnation pattern,
and we are now on
the other side,
where there are all kinds
of other opportunities.
But the person remains intact as
an entity, as a consciousness.
And so they even, if they
wish, can imagine themselves,
or view themselves,
or even appear
to others as still a human type
of form, although obviously not
purely physical.
It's going to be much
more of an ethereal form
or an energetic form.
But they still have
an identity that even
has some body features to it.
So that would be the first step,
is that they've left the body,
but they've recognized
that they are still
completely intact as an entity.
>>REGINA: Now that's
the pro, the old pro
who's been around the block a
few times, many incarnations.
We're going to
continue from there,
but let's go back for a moment.
For people where it's more of
a newbie experience, let's talk
about the phenomenon that
occurs right around that, too,
with the presence of ones
they're familiar with
and have love bonds with.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
It seems as if, for
people-- particularly people
who are new to this or who
might be alarmed by it--
there is lots of support.
Various forms of comfort
and support are presented.
If the person is looking at
their body, their dead body
on the table there,
and feels alarmed,
they may feel very quickly
some enveloping energies
of love and comfort
and support that
begin to shift them into
changing their orientation away
from the body and toward
a different direction.
They might see a lighted
tunnel, for example,
or a lighted space that
they can walk into.
They might simply feel drawn.
Many feel that when they die,
they are literally pushed out
of their body and find
themselves above it,
and are then-- as
long as there's
nothing that is holding
them in place-- they
may be drawn very easily and
naturally into the other side.
>>REGINA: And that's where
it's good to have coaxing
from people that look familiar.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
Exactly.
Because when a new soul,
or a young soul, let's say,
has this experience,
they might feel
drawn to stay with the body.
They might even feel drawn
to not allow themselves to be
pulled away or drawn away.
And so they need
coaxing and comforting
and help to feel that
they can leave that,
that that was temporary, that
what's permanent about them is
still with them, they're
still fully there,
and it's OK to move on.
So there's that stage of
needing to comfort and prepare
and orient the person to
a different way of seeing
themselves.
>>REGINA: And the
commonality, whether it's
a person who has a lot
of experience with this,
or a newbie, is there
is a being drawn
toward a light, the
layers of light,
sometimes in geometrical
forms or concentric circles.
But it's always a
drawing toward the light.
>>LINDEMANN: It
seems to be, yes.
That seems to be one of the
most widely reported features.
Now some people--
it should be noted,
some people mention that they
go through a space of darkness
on their way to the light.
So you do hear variations.
>>REGINA: Right, where they'll
see a little dot of light
in the distance.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
Exactly.
>>REGINA: That's the tunnel
effect, I believe, right?
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
Exactly.
The darkness, if they do
experience it, is not scary.
It's a very warm and embracing
darkness that draws them.
>>REGINA: Kind of a void.
>>LINDEMANN: Yes.
But it does draw them,
again, toward that light
you're talking about.
And the mature soul, or the
soul that has had experience,
might find that
they're simply allowed
to proceed into the afterlife
more or less on their own,
as if they know the way, as if
everything's going to be fine,
they've done this before.
If, however, there's
any apprehension,
any worry, any fear,
why then, those others
will come forward to comfort
and orient the person.
Now those others may
be a range of beings.
Some may be deceased
relatives, even
if that relative might also
have reincarnated and be
in material form.
>>REGINA: Well, we're
going to go there, too.
>>LINDEMANN: But we'll
come back to that point.
>>REGINA: We'll
come back to that.
>>LINDEMANN: But
let's leave that.
That's a complication
we can talk about later.
Deceased relatives can come.
The person will have a guide who
has been with them for a very
long time, a spiritual guide.
The guide is probably
a human being
who has been through
many, many lifetimes,
many more than the person
that we're speaking of.
But that person guides
from the standpoint
of knowing the life of a human.
And so the guide is a
very important friend
to the person who is on
their way to the other side.
Other people or entities
that might be involved
are described as the council of
elders, or the support group.
And there's also a
group of beings, people,
that we have probably
been associated with,
our own core group of
people that we have probably
been associated with for
thousands and thousands
of years, many, many,
many lifetimes, souls
that we might even
have been created
with as part of one group.
>>REGINA: Right, a soul group.
>>LINDEMANN: Yes, exactly.
So that soul group,
then, might be with us
for virtually eternity.
They could with us for
thousands of years.
And we will have had many, many,
many kinds of relationships
again and again and again and
again in the physical plane
with those beings.
And so we will see them as well.
So there's a whole host
of different entities
that might greet us or
be there to support us.
>>REGINA: I remember
the day my mother died,
I was in the room with her the
final day and holding her hand.
I had my sister
hold her other hand,
and I held my sister's hand.
The way she showed herself
was as a woman of about 19.
She was very young.
And she had a circle,
a semicircle of beings
that were all light beings.
They were just-- it was
as though they were white,
and just wearing some
nondescript flowing white
clothing in a semicircle around
her-- as she was telling me,
you can let me go
now because I'm fine.
And I felt we couldn't feel
her in the room anymore.
It's as though she had
already left the body,
and we're going to talk about
that, before the heart stopped
beating.
And because I know a lot of
intuitive people that can see.
I happened to be with
some a couple days later,
and one of the men said,
oh, it's so interesting.
Your mother's showing
herself same age,
wearing the same little green
t-shirt with the same beings
behind her.
So to me that was validation
that that is where she was.
And so can you tell
us a little bit
about how some people have
experienced these beings,
explain how they
experience these beings,
this array of beings.
Is that the council of
elders, so to speak?
>>LINDEMANN: Well, it
could be several things.
It can be our soul
group that we're
almost certain to meet
with on the other side
and maybe spend quite
a lot of time with.
It can also be our
council of elders.
Now the council of
elders is described,
at least by Michael Newton, as
a group of more advanced beings,
sort of like the
chairman of the board
and the board members
who have been watching
over our life for many, many,
many, many, many incarnations.
Those beings may have a kind
of austere quality to them.
>>REGINA: These were austere.
>>LINDEMANN: Yes.
These beings are not
on the same level
as the person who has passed.
Now their soul group will be
roughly on the same level,
and those people will
be treated as friends.
And when they get
together, there
might be laughter, there might
be fun, there might be joking,
even, and a lot of other things,
because these people have
been friends for a long time.
But that other
group is much more
a business-oriented group in
terms of the spiritual business
of the soul.
>>REGINA: And that's what
it felt like at the time,
in seeing her with them.
She was like a
child amongst them.
>>LINDEMANN: That makes sense.
It really does.
>>REGINA: Now I would
like to go to-- before we
go to what happens in the life
review and all of that-- well,
actually, let's go there
now, and then we'll
go to this other subject
of multiple incarnations.
>>LINDEMANN: OK.
Well, the person
who has passed now
moves into the space
of the other side.
And there is a kind of a
sequence of things that
apparently need to take place.
Now it's not clear at all
how much time this takes,
because time on the other
side isn't really time the way
we experience it.
Time here is really
rooted in the physicality
of our existence.
Over there, time is
kind of make believe.
And so you can use it or
not, whatever's useful.
But when the person passes
over, probably the first group
they meet will be-- if they're
in a state of discomfort
or worry or concern,
then perhaps some
of their soul group will come
forward, meaning the teachers.
Pardon me-- yes, the
teachers will come forward
to console them.
But once they're past
what we call the entryway,
then they come to meet
with their actual group.
>>REGINA: Before we go into
this whole notion of kind
of parallel existences, which
is a little more complex,
let's talk about what happens
most commonly with virtually
everybody that talks about
their between life experience,
and what we commonly refer
to as maybe a life review.
Who are they meeting with,
and how does that take place?
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
OK.
On the topic of life review,
it seems as if-- again, this
is something that
Michael Newman came up
with-- there maybe actually
two phases to life review. a
But the first phase
certainly happens
very soon after you arrive.
And that will happen with
your council of elders.
And what the life
review is about
is simply to look at how the
person did in their life just
ended with respect to
what they intended to do,
what they intended
to accomplish.
The assumption there
is that before they
were born into the life just
ended, they made some plans.
They made some agreements.
They might have, for
example, agreed to meet up
and work with certain people.
They might have agreed
to have a relationship
with a certain soul that
was to become their spouse.
They might have agreed to
work on certain lessons
in that life.
Each one of us apparently
does that each and every
incarnation.
So when they are through
with that incarnation
and they arrive on the other
side, one of the things
that the soul-- that their
group of elders wants to do
is simply reflect with them
on, how did you do you?
Did you actually manage to
work on those areas of weakness
and trouble that you
had talked about before?
And to some extent,
the answer will be yes,
but it's probably yes, but.
Because for almost
all of us, apparently,
when we get to
the other side, we
recognize that if we had been
able to lead an absolutely
perfect life, we could
have gotten more done,
we could have been
distracted less,
we could've gotten
off on fewer tangents,
and we would have, perhaps,
been a little further along
by the time we ended this life.
But whatever of that
may or may not be true,
one thing that seems
to always be true
is that the council of elders
is extremely gentle, extremely
understanding,
extremely supportive.
There is no criticism.
>>REGINA: People are so
terrified of that notion.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
There is no criticism.
There is no condemnation.
There is only the
supportive suggestions
to help a person understand,
in as gentle a way as possible,
what else is possible, what they
may want to work on next time,
and so forth.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now let's-- if we can
delve a little bit to this,
because we just teased
it a little while ago--
the notion of parallel realities
or parallel lifetimes within
a given incarnation.
That's-- yeah,
let's talk about it.
>>LINDEMANN: Well,
you know, this
is an area that I think was a
big surprise to Michael Newton.
And I should probably
say for listeners
that aren't aware of this,
that Michael Newton has gleaned
all the information in his books
by regressing his subjects.
>>REGINA: And he was
a skeptic to start.
>>LINDEMANN: He was most
definitely a skeptic.
In fact, he had no spiritual
convictions whatsoever right
as he went into this
work, as he began
his career in hypnotherapy.
And he was using regression
the way a lot of other people
use regression.
>>REGINA: Get rid of pain.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
Just to take them back in
this lifetime to earlier,
when things can be released.
So when he began
to encounter people
who had these, literally,
past life experiences,
he had to catch
up, and he really
was quite stunned at first.
But one of the very
big surprises that
did come up after he'd
been at this awhile
is that apparently,
if a soul wishes,
a soul can express itself
in two different lifetimes
at the same time.
Now one thing that he
says is always true
is that the soul always
divides its presence
between the other
side and this side.
>>REGINA: Well, that's where I
was going to go next with it.
So go ahead and give us the full
complement of information here.
>>LINDEMANN: Well, again,
apparently the soul
can divide its presence
in whatever way
seems to be helpful for
the spiritual progress
of the individual.
>>REGINA: Can be in association
with, or--yes, as a soul,
penetrate more than one vehicle
at one time, so to speak.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
So first of all we know
one part of the soul
always remains anchored
on the other side.
That part never changes.
And of course, that part
is-- when we say anchored,
that part is directly connected
to the source of souls,
the source, capital S. We can
call it God, whatever you like.
But that soul, then, can
also project its self
into the physical plane, which
is what normally happens.
For you, for me, as
we're sitting here,
we have a soul,
obviously, that is
projected into our physicality.
But our soul-- your
soul, for example,
might also be projected
into another body
somewhere else in this same
time frame on this same planet,
or perhaps even
somewhere else entirely.
We don't know that.
Now this is an area
that I haven't honestly
given a huge amount of thought
to because it's rather more
esoteric than a lot of the
other parts of the picture that
have immediate
therapeutic help or use.
>>REGINA: That's true.
However, I'm wondering if
the other version of you
in the given time frame is also
impacting-- because it's all
coming back to the same
source-- is also impacting
what's going on in that life.
I'm curious about it
on a variety of levels,
and also feelings that one
might have where you can almost
feel this other place.
And you know it's not the past.
It doesn't feel
like the past as we
speak of time, or the future.
But it's so very
real, as though it's
a place you spend a lot of time.
>>LINDEMANN: Well, that
could be true, certainly,
if your soul, for example
has projected equally
into two different physical
lives in this time.
The life that is
sitting in that chair
there might very well,
on a subliminal level,
become aware from time to
time of things happening
in the other life
because, of course,
it is being mediated
through the one soul.
So that may actually raise
interesting questions
in the mind of the person.
>>REGINA: Oh, it does.
>>LINDEMANN: You know, where
did this idea come from?
Why do I know these things?
Why do I feel at home in a
completely different culture?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>LINDEMANN: And all
those kinds of questions
may, indeed, reflect
back to that point.
>>REGINA: And in
my own case, I've
had experiences-- one
particular experience-- I don't
need to go into the experience.
But it lasted for
many, many years,
where I was in connection with
this other person right here.
It would kind of come in
and then it would go away.
But it was a parallel
reality in which
I was totally existing with
this other person right here.
>>LINDEMANN: Interesting.
>>REGINA: Myself, another
version of me, or maybe
me with another person.
I started thinking,
can that maybe also
be kind of like timeline jumps?
Or maybe another
density, part of you
that's in another dimensional
aspect or something?
I love all this.
I mean, I said
that to begin with.
I'm very intrigued with all
the different iterations
of ourselves that could
be impacting this moment.
>>LINDEMANN: Sure.
Well, and as we've both
said, it's quite possible
that a parallel life is
impacting this life right now.
Now I don't know for sure
if that's true of me.
I don't have any particular
inclinations that that is true.
>>REGINA: And
probably most people
don't mention that when
they're in the therapy.
So we can consider
it more esoteric
and just something to
ponder than anything else.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
But what it does do,
is it does indicate
that the soul has many
prerogatives that it
may choose if it wishes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
Now let's talk about
a challenge situation.
And I know there was one
in "Journey of Souls"
that was interesting.
A person, a woman,
who was going back
to the source of pain,
pain enough that--
in a previous life, as a
man, had committed suicide.
This person had become really
quite abusive in their ways,
using other people, trying to
manipulate money and people
and so forth, and came to a
dead end and killed themselves.
This person then came into
a female body thinking,
I'll try to manage this with
maybe more subtlety, in a more
feminine way, but
was still displaying
all of the masculine traits,
and just bludgeoning people
in business deals and so forth.
Can you talk a little bit
about this progression?
That opens up two or three
different little kettle of fish
there.
One is, continuation
of behaviors
even though we have
made an agreement
to do things differently, and
what that normally results in.
Two, sexually, when people
migrate from one sex to another
not having really experienced
that sex a lot of the time.
Let's talk about a
couple of those issues.
>>LINDEMANN: OK.
Well, there's a lot of
pieces to what you just said.
>>REGINA: There are
a lot of pieces.
Go for it, whichever
ones are fun for you.
>>LINDEMANN: Well, first of
all, on the question of sex
and sexual orientation,
Michael Newton's subjects have
indicated to him that most
souls have a preference for one
sex or the other, and
given that preference,
are likely to show up as one
sex or the other about 75%
of the time.
So for example, your soul might
lean toward being a woman.
My soul might lean
toward being a man.
But it's almost
certain that if you've
been around a few
lifetimes, you've
probably shown up as a
man, and the same for me,
shown up as a woman.
In fact, I can kind of feel
at an almost cellular level,
I can imagine the
possibility of having been
a woman some lifetimes ago.
And I think that
anyone that is somewhat
mature in their
spiritual outlook
doesn't probably have too much
difficulty imagining that.
So that's one
level, where we can
be one kind or the
other from time to time.
>>REGINA: Depending on the
experience we want to have
and what we're looking
to learn, right?
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
Exactly.
So beyond that the soul
has the possibility
of being in two bodies at once.
It has the possibility
of choosing how it will
express itself, man or woman.
>>REGINA: Well,
what I was referring
to in that instance is,
the person thought, OK, I
can remedy this kind of
bullying, abusive behavior
in one lifetime by trying
it again as a woman.
But the same traits were coming
up again, even as a woman.
>>LINDEMANN: Right.
Michael Newton has
found many clients
who clearly had an issue
in a past life as a man,
and came forward
as a woman, finding
that, in some respect or other,
they still had the same issue.
Now for example, you mentioned
a case where, as a man,
he was very abusive.
>>REGINA: More in
a business sense.
A bully, really
manipulating the system,
and killed himself ultimately.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Wasn't
working out for him.
>>LINDEMANN: He was so
unhappy, as he put it,
he was so unhappy with
what his life had become.
And then, apparently,
that same soul
came forward to express
itself as a woman.
Now one of the things that souls
sometimes do--and people do
explain this to Michael
Newton again and again--
is that if, for example, a soul
in a man's body has very bad
relations with women, or
is abusive toward women,
or in some sense feels that they
have been harmful toward women
or unjust toward women,
that same soul might choose
to incarnate as a woman in
order to experience how it was,
as a woman, to be
treated that way.
And they might
even put themselves
into a life situation
where they are
purposely, at least
from the soul's point
of view, purposely
disadvantaged or purposely
mistreated so that they
can have that experience.
It's not a matter of redressing
bad behavior so much.
It's not a matter of
punishment or balancing karma
so much as it is simply
teaching the soul what
it means to be fully
balanced and fully human
in the sense of being fully
expressive of the full range
of human possibilities,
and fully accepting
of that range of
human possibilities.
So for example, a man
doesn't look down on a woman
or vice versa.
>>REGINA: Right.
And it's not something that is
being meted from the outside.
It's the soul's choice to
allow itself to have experience
that, as you said, creates
a deeper understanding.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I mean, I was having
a conversation
of this nature with someone
recently, and they were saying,
well, how is it that when
you go to the other side,
you wouldn't be judged--
very Christian--
you wouldn't be judged
and there might not
be some kind of period of
punishment of some kind?
And I thought, well, if
a soul has good guidance
and a soul has any desire toward
its own refinement and wisdom,
it will choose a
balancing experience.
And one might say, if you
want to look at punishment,
they're certainly
going to experience
the other end of the spectrum.
And it's just
self-balancing, so to speak.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
It is self-balancing.
Part of it is certainly governed
by the soul's own judgment
and own wisdom.
But I think Newton also
makes it very clear
that if the soul is, let's say,
resisting its lessons-- which
souls do, no question-- gentle
persuasion can be applied.
Not coercion, because
souls are allowed to mess
up as long as they want to.
If a soul needs--
>>REGINA: Time is infinite.
>>LINDEMANN: Time is infinite.
Precisely.
And it seems as if one thing
that everyone agrees on is,
compassion is also infinite.
There is no end to the
compassion, to the patience,
and to the allowing from
those on the other side who
are managing and helping us.
They will give us
every opportunity,
literally forever, it would
seem, although luckily it
doesn't take forever
for most people.
But it seems as if it is in
the nature of how we relate
to the system, if you will, the
spiritual system in which we
are a part.
It seems as if we are always
given every opportunity
to learn our lessons at our
own rate in our own way.
And if we are fearful,
if we are resistant,
if we're just plain immature
and selfish, which is also
part of the picture, we
are given all the time
we need to work that stuff out.
>>REGINA: I mean, to me,
it's so important for people,
for humanity, to
understand that.
And instead of the notion
of a punishing god that
is going to create a hellish
experience for a person somehow
somewhere, it's so
much more-- to me
it always made more sense that
there was this notion of grace
and balance and infinite time.
>>LINDEMANN: Well,
I absolutely agree.
In fact, I think a punishing
god-- which, of course,
many, many people
believe is out there--
I believe a punishing
god is a very small god.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Small g.
>>LINDEMANN: That's
the kind of god
that small-minded people imagine
because all they can imagine
is a world in which
it's basically
dog-eat-dog survival
of the fittest,
and a very kind of--
oh, I don't know.
>>REGINA: All religions are
fraught with this judgment
thing.
Yeah.
Most religions.
>>LINDEMANN: Yes.
The idea that god judges us.
Now of course, the
scriptures have
a lot of judgment
language in them
depending on how you read them.
But I think that as we
become more spiritually
mature as a people, as a planet,
we find more and more people
recognizing that it would be
in the nature of a big god,
of a truly wonderful
and magnificent and--
>>REGINA: Source, god, whatever.
>>LINDEMANN: The
kind of god that we
would like to believe in
is a god whose compassion
is absolute, whose
love is absolute,
and where the concept
of unconditionality
goes far beyond anything
we imagine in our heads.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And for me, even as a
little child, that's the way
I tended to go on it.
When I heard about some of
the really judgemental stuff,
by four, five, six years old
in Sunday school, it's really,
I can't go there.
We just know innately.
And children do know innately.
There is a sense of
a fairness, I think,
built into most human beings.
>>LINDEMANN: Well,I
think so too.
>>REGINA: And let's talk
about where it's not.
There are some human beings
where it's not built in,
where there are extreme
acts of cruelty because
of a lack of understanding,
extreme maybe
immaturity, whatever caused it.
And I want to go there, because
according to Michael Newton's
work, there's a little
different process that
happens if you
have just completed
acts of extreme cruelty
to others on this planet.
>>LINDEMANN: Well, that is true.
And I think before
I even address
that, I want to say one more
thing that Newton talks about,
which leads right into this.
And that is that every
time a person shows up,
like you or me, in this
life, what has happened is,
a soul has mated with
a brain, all right?
And though the soul has
a wonderfully expansive
and, let's say,
semi-enlightened--
even an immature soul
has, relatively speaking,
a semi-enlightened view of the
way things are and ought to be.
But when they mate
with a human brain,
they must accommodate all of
the innate physical drives
and programming that
are part of that brain.
>>REGINA: All the animal inputs.
>>LINDEMANN: All
the animal stuff
which is absolutely build in and
inescapable in the physicality
of our existence.
>>REGINA: Yes, that is true.
>>LINDEMANN: And
so every soul is
in the business of managing
the sometimes unruly, sometimes
even crazy impulses
of the human brain
and its associated
body and its drives.
>>REGINA: Emotions and so forth.
>>LINDEMANN: All that stuff.
Exactly.
And so each one of us has a kind
of a wrestling match going on
inside.
>>REGINA: Thus, duality.
>>LINDEMANN: Well, yeah.
And it is duality in a sense,
in that-- which, by the way,
we talked a little bit
about Amit Goswami.
That's something he hates.
>>REGINA: Yes, the word duality.
>>LINDEMANN: They try to get
around it anyway they can.
>>REGINA: OK, change the word.
But yeah.
>>LINDEMANN: But in
any case, this idea
that the soul and the brain
have a relationship which
is more or less well-established
in any given lifetime.
And sometimes it's
really everything
the soul can do to simply
hang on and see how it goes.
Now, we had talked
about what happens
to a person whose brain was,
let's say, unhappy and perhaps
even slightly
deranged, and tended
toward behavior that was
destructive and unkind
and so forth.
Where does that leave the soul?
We have a person whose brain
was of the sort that tended
toward bad behavior, let's say.
Maybe they were destructive,
maybe they were unkind,
maybe they were violent, maybe
they harmed other people.
The soul undoubtedly was unhappy
with much of that behavior,
and the nature of any
soul would be unhappy.
But that particular
soul may have felt,
I don't have enough strength.
>>REGINA: Enough influence.
>>LINDEMANN: I don't
have enough influence.
Exactly.
I cannot influence
this brain, OK?
Well, why did they get that
brain in the first place?
It wasn't by accident.
It was chosen.
Now they may have
simply made a mistake.
They may have simply
failed to fully appreciate
what the tendencies
of that brain
would have led to in the
way of human behavior.
But in any event, when the
soul was mated with that brain,
the soul definitely had a
conscious choice in the matter,
and did take on that brain.
So the soul is responsible.
Even if they were riding a
wild horse with no control
whatsoever, the fact that
they chose into that situation
without exception-- every
single time they did
choose it-- that means they are
responsible for what occurred.
And if that person utilizing
a damaged or unhappy brain
did terribly destructive
things, well,
then the soul must
make amends for that.
But in addition, the soul
might also need repair.
And so one of the
things that seems
to happen almost immediately
when the soul passes
from the body and
gets to the other side
is that there will
be a healing process.
Everyone probably
gets a little bit
of healing just in the
general nature of things.
But some souls who come back
after that kind of lifetime,
where a lot of
damage was done, they
may spend time in isolation.
They may spend
time really needing
a great deal of quiet
time, reflection
time, and actual repair in order
to be fully functional again.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
It's not the same kind of gentle
ushering over to Auntie May
and so forth.
It's just, let's
get on with this.
Let's get you over here.
And again, there is its
own-- there's a grace in that
as well.
>>LINDEMANN: Oh,
certainly there is.
>>REGINA: Yes, it's
not a punishment.
>>LINDEMANN: It's not
a punishment at all.
What is intended is that that
soul, which has now taken on--
not necessarily by choice, but
because of the circumstances
they did, in fact,
choose into, they
have taken on what we
could call-- the shorthand,
anyway-- bad karma.
They have got some
damage and they've
got some things that
have to be redressed.
And so that will be done in a
very loving and very supportive
environment so that they can
be regenerated and reoriented
back to the path that they
would prefer to be on.
It takes time sometimes.
A soul that has been
severely damaged
by a very, very
violent or bad life
might need a long, long
time in Earth years
before they come back.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And one thing you hear about
when it comes to repair
is that people, some of the
people that he worked with,
explained it was almost
like they were bathed
in some kind of a laser
light of energy, color,
and so forth that seemed to
be coming in and lifting,
elevating, repairing
damage to their being.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
Many kinds of energy that we
might experience as music,
as warmth, as various
forms of light,
are utilized on the
other side all the time.
>>REGINA: Now let's
talk about the cycle
from beginning to
end, before-- we just
talked about a little
bit of a debriefing
after one leaves the body.
Let's talk about the process
of what happens before one
chooses to incarnate again.
>>LINDEMANN: Right.
Well, first of all, the person
has gone to the other side
and has gone through the
stages of being reoriented
to the other side, has
rejoined their own group
on the other side.
Now according to Michael
Newton and his subjects,
every one of us has
a group of souls
with whom we've been associated
for a very, very long time.
And portions of that group
remain on the other side
at any given time.
So first of all, we're going
to spend time with them.
Some of that time will
simply be rest time.
Some of it will be study time.
In the life just
ended, we came up
against dilemmas
we couldn't solve.
Every one of us does.
And once we get back
to the other side,
some of what we're
doing is going
through some of the things
that didn't work out very well,
some of the mistakes we made,
some of the horrible stuff
that happened.
And we want to
repair that stuff.
We want to learn our way.
>>REGINA: And some people
were traumatized, oftentimes.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
So there will be the healing
parts for the trauma.
But in terms of bad
ideas encountered,
bad behaviors that
have to be figured out,
all that comes down to a
period of study and reflection,
which prepares us to
give it another try.
If the life wasn't perfect,
it's a virtual certainty
that we're going to go back.
So the assumption
is that all of us
are still on the
reincarnational cycle,
even if our lives
are going very well.
You might reincarnate
as a teacher.
And by that I mean,
as an actual guide.
But you will still be human.
You've obviously learned a
bunch of lessons in your life
and in many lifetimes previous.
You're not a beginner, and
I'm not a beginner, either.
But that doesn't mean we're
at the end of the game.
We have a long way to go.
And as we cycle
through these things,
we get ready for the next round.
And so having spent
time with our group,
we then go back our
council of elders.
And our council of elders now
wants to-- rather than debrief
us from last time, they want
to pre-brief us for next time.
And so there will be a
whole bunch of things
that need to be determined.
First of all, what is the
point of your next life?
What are you trying to achieve?
Who do you want to be?
What would be the
best kind of life
to help you make
those achievements,
to accomplish those things?
And if that's the life you
want to have, where should be
and with whom?
So those questions are all
addressed very methodically,
if his information is correct.
And all of them are meant to
give us the best possible shot
at actually achieving the
goals we set for ourself when
we arrive in the planetary
environment again.
>>REGINA: Then why the amnesia?
>>LINDEMANN: Great question.
Very irksome, isn't it?
And by the amnesia, of
course, what we mean is,
we don't remember, really,
all this stuff that apparently
happens on the other side.
When we're here in our
physical incarnation,
we can only guess
or imagine or hope.
We don't have a firm
sense of memory.
And Michael Newton
says very emphatically,
that's because of the amnesia.
The amnesia is there on purpose.
Now, it's interesting.
When the soul
arrives in the body
of a fetus that has
not yet been born,
the soul still knows who it is.
And the soul can-- as a soul,
as a conscious soul-- can
work with the brain of the
fetus in terms of getting itself
well-established, well set i n.
>>REGINA: It can work with
the physiology as well,
and start directing
the genetic influence.
>>LINDEMANN: Yes, it can,
if what is said is true.
And so up to the point of actual
physical birth, it would seem,
the soul does know who it
is and what it's about.
But the soul also
agrees to forget.
At the point of birth,
the soul forgets,
because one of the great
challenges and lessons
of every single lifetime is to
find your way back to the soul
from a place of not remembering.
That is an underlying spiritual
challenge and opportunity
in every single life.
It seems to be designed
into the project.
>>REGINA: And I
think another thing
he mentioned as well is,
it can be a bit of a burden
to carry around, perhaps,
memory of things that were done
against one, for example,
that would show up as perhaps
anger, grudges, and so forth.
Now it might be buried
in the subconscious mind.
It might that if we were
stabbed to death, for example,
you might still have a
little pain in the side.
But again, to have
full conscious memory
of that could really skew the
way one went about their lives.
>>LINDEMANN: That's
absolutely right.
And he does say that
very emphatically,
that it would be very difficult
to stay focused on this life
if we had full memory of all
the lives we'd had in the past.
We might spend a lot of time
wishing we were back being
somebody big and important.
Or we might spend a lot
of time resenting people
who had harmed us in the
past, and not be focused on--
>>REGINA: Now.
>>LINDEMANN: The present.
Exactly.
So it's very, very important.
But of course, we know that
those lifetimes do bubble up
because that's what past
life therapy's all about.
>>REGINA: That's right.
Right.
One of my favorite films
is "Defending Your Life."
>>LINDEMANN: Oh,
I love that film.
Absolutely love it.
>>REGINA: And I think it's in
that film where they give them
a little shot before
they come back.
Poof, memory all gone.
Sometimes I confuse that.
There are three or four of
those films I really like.
But in that one in particular,
it shows in a comedic way.
But still, I love
the way Hollywood
is able to kind of take
very complex themes
and reduce them to
a simple comedy,
because actually a lot of
truth comes out in that film.
>>LINDEMANN: I think
that film in particular
did a very, very good job of
exploring some of these issues.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>LINDEMANN: I
strongly recommend it.
>>REGINA: Yeah, of
course Meryl Streep
can do no wrong in real
life, too, I guess, even now.
On that note, one final
question, because we're
just about out of time.
And this has to do with
the human condition.
Do you feel that-- people
are afraid of dying.
So there's always
the question, am I
just embracing this
notion of past lives
because I'm afraid of death?
>>LINDEMANN: Well, of course.
And skeptics are sure
to trot that out.
In fact, they do.
And in fairness, we can't prove
scientifically that this stuff
is true yet, not really.
But there's an awful lot of
mounting evidence, certainly
evidence for the persistence
of the soul outside the body.
Going back to the work
that started in 1975
with the guy whose name
I can never remember.
>>REGINA: Raymond Moody.
>>LINDEMANN: Raymond Moody.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: He's
done amazing work.
>>LINDEMANN: What is that?
Why can't I remember your name?
>>REGINA: Decades
and decades of work.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
Starting in '75, he was
publishing many, many cases
that indicate very
strongly that there
is a persistence of conscious
understanding of who you
are outside the body itself.
And so we do have, if
not proof, per se--
>>REGINA: Well, there's
thousands of cases.
>>LINDEMANN: Thousands of cases.
As a guy who used to spend a
lot of time in the UFO world,
I understand the frustration
of people who recognize
that as good, solid evidence.
Because science, hard science,
says no, that's not evidence.
Those are anecdotes.
You can tell stories all
day long if you like,
and they're nice stories,
but they don't add up
to proof of anything.
That was the argument
against UFOs.
It's still the same argument.
And it, again, can be
trotted out as an argument
not against the reality of this,
but an argument that requires
a kind of agnostic position.
>>REGINA: That is true.
This is a challenge we're
having across the board.
You can't use one
set of criteria,
which is experiential, in
the true meaning of the word
empirical, with
empirical science.
And we're always trying--
and I know, I do this, too,
and many people
sitting across from me.
We're always trying to
use one set of criteria
to prove the other, but it
can never actually be done.
So you have to go on what
you garner as your truth.
>>LINDEMANN: Well, I think
that that's basically
what it comes to.
But I do think that
the world as a whole
is becoming more
comfortable with the idea
that life goes on.
I think that we
are beginning to be
more comfortable with the
idea that the soul is real.
I think that that's a
widely held view today.
I think the idea-- I think I
read a statistic the other day
that over half of all people in
the United States now believe
in reincarnation, which
was an interesting--
>>REGINA: Yes, that is.
Absolutely.
>>LINDEMANN: That's an
interesting finding.
Right around half,
if I'm not mistaken.
And so there is a
shift toward this.
And I think that it is very
beneficial to the planet
as a whole if we begin
to understand ourselves
not as meat sacks that die
and are gone after one life.
>>REGINA: Thus no
consequence for behavior.
>>LINDEMANN: Exactly.
Exactly.
Instead, we live in a world
of souls that come and go
that have relationships
that span millennia,
that there are consequences to
every single thing we do, for
better or for worse, and
that if we want to actualize
the highest that we can
be, we must understand
that we are first and
foremost spiritual entities.
>>REGINA: Well said.
Couldn't agree more.
Thank you so much.
I'm kind of glad you did your
shift over from the world
of UFOs, which you explored
out to the nth degree,
and now you're doing
the same in this area,
because you have a nice
compulsive aspect of your being
that needs to know.
>>LINDEMANN: Thanks.
I do.
>>REGINA: And you're wonderful
at articulating it as well.
>>LINDEMANN: Well, I hope so.
I'm very much at the
beginning of this,
as you well can understand.
And perhaps in a year or
two, we can do another one
and have another conversation.
>>REGINA: Sounds great.
Thank you, Michael.
>>LINDEMANN: It's
been lots of fun.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: Again, if
you'd like to learn more
about life between lives and
the journey of the souls,
you can read Michael
Newton's work,
available at major booksellers.
If you enjoyed the
topic, you might also
enjoy my interview with Dr.
Raymond Moody, which we just
spoke of.
He is the godfather of
out of body experiences.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.